---
layout: single
title:  "What is CAN?(1)"
categories : CAN
toc: true
typora-root-url: ../
tag: [MOBILITY, SOFTWARE, NETWORK, CAN]
#search : false 검색 원치 않을 때
---

# What is CAN? : Controller Area Network



[TOC]

*Greetings, future Engineers! Welcome to Arielle's Auto Odyssey, where we embark on a journey through the CAN. If you've ever worked or interested in the automotive software industry, you've likely come across CAN. With this post, I aim to kick off a series within the **What is CAN?**, covering fundamental knowledge in CAN category. Starting from what CAN is, we'll delve into five essential areas including messages, errors, databases, Canoe, and more. Join me on this first leg of the CAN series, "What is CAN?" Let's begin this exciting journey now. Ok Come this way!* 🏁



## 1. Background

  



## 2. CAN Connector

- **Elevating Safety as a Fundamental Principle:** ISO 26262 establishes a robust framework systematically mitigating risks associated with potential hazards in vehicle software and electrical systems. In an industry where safety transcends being a mere feature to become a fundamental requirement, this framework holds paramount importance.

- **Navigating Stringent Industry Regulations Globally:** Amidst the ever-increasing global regulations on vehicle safety, ISO 26262 acts as a guiding beacon for compliance. It provides a structured approach not just to meet but to exceed regulatory requirements across diverse international markets.

  

## 3. 120옴 저항

- **ASIL (Automotive Safety Integrity Level):** Globally, automotive manufacturers and suppliers adhere to the ASIL categorization introduced by ISO 26262. It serves as a foundational element for assessing and classifying risks associated with vehicle systems, ensuring a harmonized approach to safety across borders.

- **Safety Lifecycle:** The global automotive industry wholeheartedly embraces the comprehensive approach of ISO 26262 to safety throughout the entire lifecycle of vehicle systems. Encompassing development, production, operation, service, and decommissioning, this methodology ensures a standardized and thorough handling of safety considerations.

  

## 4. CAN High & CAN Low

*Let's delve even deepyer into few international and domestic cases!*



- **Tesla's Over-the-Air Updates:** Tesla sets the bar by seamlessly integrating ISO 26262 principles into their software development. The implementation of over-the-air updates showcases the adaptability of safety practices in real-time, establishing new benchmarks for the industry.
- **Hyundai's Safety-First Approach:** Hyundai emerges as a pioneer, wholeheartedly adopting ISO 26262 principles in their software development processes. Their safety-first approach not only meets but surpasses global safety standards, reinforcing their commitment to producing reliable and secure vehicles.



## 5. CAN Tranceiver & CAN Controller

Roles in functional safety are not just crucial; they're the backbone, both domestically and internationally. In the upcoming posts, we'll take a more profound dive into these roles. The central spotlight will be on the pivotal role of a Functional Safety Engineer, drawing insights from global and local automotive software practices.



## 6. Baude Rate

ke a more profound dive into these roles. The central spotlight will be on the pivotal role of a Functional Safety Engineer, drawing insights from global and local automotive software practices.



## 7. Conclusion

*How was your first journey about CAN?*

*In this post, we haven't just scratched the surface of ISO 26262; we've gone deep and gained insights from global leaders in the automotive software industry. Join me in the upcoming posts as we dissect real-world examples, learn from industry practices, and navigate the multifaceted world of functional safety in automotive software development! Take care! :)* *🚗



## References

[earth2.digital](https://www.earth2.digital/blog/what-is-vehicle-can-bus-ecu-evoque-adam-ali.html)

